Reference for stage 3 regex-escaping (#36928)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/string/replaceall/index.md

This method does not mutate the string value it's called on. It returns a new string.

> Unlike [`replace()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace), this method would replace all occurrences of a string, not just the first one. This is especially useful if the string is not statically known, as calling the [`RegExp()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/RegExp) constructor without escaping special characters may unintentionally change its semantics. (You can also use {{jsxref("RegExp.escape()")}} to make the replacement string a literal pattern, but that is more indirection than just calling `replaceAll()`.)

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you're trying to say with ", but that is more indirection than just calling `replaceAll()`.)"

It reads as though you are not recommending using `RegExp.escape()` for this case of the string for the regexp constructor.

Author: Aye, I'm not recommending `RegExp.escape`. I'm just preempting someone saying, "Buuuut you can actually use `replace() + RegExp()`, you just need to escape it!!"

Reviewer: Perhaps it is actually the "This is especially useful if" part that is confusing me - why is being able to replace all occurrences of a string especially useful if the string is not statically known?

Or to put it another way, don't I have to escape the pattern I use in this method too?

Author: > why is being able to replace all occurrences of a string especially useful if the string is not statically known?

I mean, that doesn't sound like an obscure use case at all, is it? Maybe the replacement string comes from user configuration, maybe it's retrieved from a database...

> don't I have to escape the pattern I use in this method too?

In `replaceAll`? No, since the idea is that you can just do `replaceAll(oldString, newString)`. The problem with `replace(oldString, newString)` is that it only does the replacement once, so if you want to replace all occurrences of `oldString`, you have to first convert it to a global regex, but the conversion is non-trivial.

Reviewer: I understand why you wouldn't use `replace()` and I understand why you would use `replaceAll` for a static string.

But `replaceAll` takes a pattern that can be a regexp

Author: I assume by "static string" you just mean "string"? Since it doesn't matter where the string comes from. For regexp there's a difference between "static regexp" and "dynamically assembled regexp" though since the latter is subject to regex syntax injection. String replacement is safe. Regex replacement should preferably only be used with static regexes. It happens that `replace()` and `replaceAll()`, when taking a regex, have exactly the same behavior (and `replaceAll()` throws if the regex is non-global), so yeah you could say that using `replaceAll` with a regex is useless since it's always equivalent to a `replace` anyway.

Reviewer: I get it now.

You are saying that you can also replace all strings using `replace()` with a regexp. However this is not safe if the regexp takes a "user-passed string" unless the passed string is sanitized. You could sanitize it first using the `escape()` method, but if you're doing literal string replacement you might as well just use `replaceAll` with a (non-regexp) string.

The reason this text is hard to parse is that when you read this it isn't obvious that you're saying can also use `replace()` with regexp to replace the strings. Might be worth spelling it out for people like me.

If so, maybe:

```suggestion
Unlike [`replace()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace), this method replaces all occurrences of a string, not just the first one.

Note that it is also possible to use `replace()` with a [`RegExp()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/RegExp) to replace all instances of a string, this can have unintended consequences if the string contains special characters that have meaning in regular expressions (which might happen if the replacement string comes from user input).
While you can mitigate this case using {{jsxref("RegExp.escape()")}} to make the regular expression string into a literal pattern, it is better just to use `replaceAll()`.
```
